---
layout: article
title:  "Getting Started: 50 things you can do"
date:   2018-10-10 
teaser: "Getting Started: 50 things you can do"
---
---

Over the course of our two-year project, members of the project team often heard a question along the lines of: “We’ve read the [Santa Barbara Statement](https://collectionsasdata.github.io/statement/), [the Facets](https://collectionsasdata.github.io/facets/), [the Personas](https://collectionsasdata.github.io/personas/). We’re subscribed to the [google group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/collectionsasdata). But where do we start? How do we move collections as data forward at our own institution?”

50 Things is aimed at addressing that “where to start” question. It is intended to open eyes, stimulate conversation, encourage stepping back, generate ideas, and surface new possibilities. 

The project team has collected and refined this list of 50 Things over dozens of engagements. Participants at our [second National Forum](https://collectionsasdata.github.io/partners/) provided the main initial corpus, when they generously responded to a series of questions, including: *“Within the next 1-6 months, what can you do within your own workplace to realistically and relatively easily improve/ move forward collections as data work?”*

We’ve provided the 50 Things in a number of forms: A PDF suitable for printing and posting. An HTML list. A slideshow for serendipitous viewing. We hope it provides an impetus for exploring, learning from your colleagues, deepening your knowledge and understanding, and taking that first step.

Over the course of two years working on *Always Already Computational: Collections as Data,* the team has heard repeated requests from people who work in libraries, archives, and museums for help understanding what it is people want to *do* with their collections.  Generally, of course, we all want to see our collections get used, and we want to help make them available for new uses, but beyond reading or looking at them, what do people want to do with them “as data”? 
