---
layout: article
title:  "Shaping Humanities Data at Digital Humanities 2017"
date:   2017-8-1 
teaser: "Shaping Humanities Data at Digital Humanities 2017"
---
---

*August 7, 2017 | Montreal, Quebec, Canada*

For researchers and instructors seeking to leverage emerging computational methods and tools, the digital collections that cultural heritage organizations have been developing for decades can be challenging to access let alone use. How can cultural heritage institutions develop collections and systems that are more amenable to computational use? How does the movement towards computationally amenable collections prompt an opportunity to reframe, enrich, and/or contextualize collections in a manner that seeks to avoid replication of long standing biases inherent in cultural heritage collection practice? The Institute for Museum and Library Services funded Collections as Data project organized a full day Digital Humanities 2017 workshop to explore these questions.

Shaping Humanities Data features eleven talks and five demonstrations. Talks and demonstrations were solicited through a CFP and reviewed by an international program committee. The event will include opportunities for discussion and workshopping the “Always Already Computational” community framework and guides. This workshop will ultimately inform the development of recommendations that aim to support cultural heritage community efforts to make collections available as data.

# Workshop Organizers 
Thomas Padilla, University of California Santa Barbara
Sarah Potvin, Texas A&M University
Laurie Allen, University of Pennsylvania
Stewart Varner, University of Pennsylvania

# Workshop Program Committee
Harriett Green, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign
Inna Kizhner, Siberian Federal University
Alberto Martinez, Colegio de México
Ian Milligan, University of Waterloo
Gimena Del Rio Riande, Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET)- University of Buenos Aires
Laurent Romary, DARIAH
Henriette Roued-Cunliffe, University of Copenhagen 
Melissa Terras, University College London

This effort is supported by the Institute of Museum and Library Services, [LG-73-16-0096-16](https://www.imls.gov/grants/awarded/LG-73-16-0096-16). 
